# Dam break Project
Project developed to UNESP-FEIS. 
It is about the study of non-newtonian liquids through a dam break. 
The system is controled by a gate and a inclined chanel. 
The HMI has been made using Python (PyQt5). 
The control its self has been made using Arduino UNO and some peripherals such as step motors, pneumatic system and end-switches.


Introduction to dam break study according to Hong Kong University of Science and Technology:
Dam break refers to the collapse of an infinite or finite volume of fluid, particles or their mixture onto a horizontal or inclined channel. It represents a wide range of practical problems that are of great engineering importance. The collapse of water-reserving dams or earth-filling tailings dams are among the most widely known examples. The failure of these dams may cause catastrophic damages to both human life and properties. For example, the overflow of reservoir water of Vajont dam in Italy caused by a landslide in 1963 killed 1910 people. More recently, the collapse of Situ Gintung water dam in Tangerang of Indonesia in 2009 claimed nearly 100 lives. Several recent devastating failures of mine/waste tailings dams have drawn global attentions on their threat to the environment and human life. One example is the collapse of Bento Rodrigues tailings dam occurring in Mariana, Brazil, on Nov. 5, 2015. The collapsed slurry wave flooded the town of Bento Rodrigues, killed at least 17 people and polluted several nearby rivers and over 15 km2 of land. A tailings dam of jade mine collapsed in northern Myanmar on Nov. 21, 2015 killed at least 113 people. Indeed, there have been over 40 similar major failures of tailings dams reported around the world since 2000.

The scientific value of dam break has long been recognized, as an idealized problem for benchmark and verification for a range of theories and approaches in both mathematics and physics. In as early as 1892, Ritter has derived a theoretical solution for the flow front of water based on a simple dam break model. Late analytical studies have examined various aspects of dam break, including the effect of flow resistance. The majority of past studies on dam break considered the collapse of either pure fluids or dry particles, with only quite a few on particle-water mixtures. The focus of the present study is placed on the collapsing of a mixture composed by granular particles and non-Newtonian fluids, in reference to engineering problems relevant to tailings dams or environmental flows such as volcanic lava, slurry and mud flows wherein the fluid involved is typically non-Newtonian [21]. Dam break of pure non-Newtonian fluids such as slurry and gel has been studied in [13, 14]. Other examples involving non-Newtonian fluids include the slump tests on fresh concrete in civil engineering and Bostwick tests for salad dressings in food industry.  Consideration of nonNewtonian fluids indeed enables better explorations of more complex natural flows such as slurry than considering Newtonian fluids like water only. Conventional continuum-based studies on dam break have commonly considered a particle-fluid mixture as an equivalent fluid or two fluids. They have largely neglected the intricate interactions between the fluid and the particle phases which could affect significantly the collapse behavior of the mixture. In this study, a coupled CFD-DEM approach is employed to investigatethe collapse of a mixture consisting of fluid and particles, where we will demonstrate that fluid-particle interactions within the mixture can be well captured. The CFD and DEM are used to model the fluid and particle phases in the mixture, respectively. The interactions between the fluid and particles are considered by exchanging fluid-particle interaction forces between the CFD and DEM computations. The coupled CFD-DEM simulations can capture both micro and macro flow characteristics during dam break, which could offer new insights into the microstructural origins underpinning macroscopic collapse and flow of a mixture.

https://jzhao.people.ust.hk/home/PDFs/Dambreak-PT2018.pdf
